June 5, 2016
============
I think the best gating strategy is as follows:

- For screens without ligand, draw gates to collect cells that are distributed 
  like the control population.  If you will only see each library member once 
  (i.e. 1x coverage), draw gates that encompass the entire control population.  
  If you will see each library member ten times (i.e. 10x coverage), draw gates 
  that include only the most extreme ≈50% of the library.  This still gives you 
  a ≈99.99% chance (this value comes from a brute force simulation I hacked 
  together using normal distributions) of collecting a design that has the same 
  distribution as the wildtype population, but excludes as many other designs 
  as possible.

- For screens with ligand, draw gates to collect the most extreme part of the 
  library that still exhibits ligand sensitivity, or a generous ≈10% if the 
  library has not yet shown sensitivity.

The reasoning behind this strategy is that my first priority is to find designs 
that are either fully on or fully off without ligand, and my second priority is 
to find designs with the biggest possible change in signal in response to 
ligand.  The first priority is an absolute point of reference, so I can always 
draw the gates based on nothing but the controls.  The second priority depends 
on what's in the library, so I can make the gate more stringent as the most 
extreme edge of the library becomes less obscured by constitutive designs.

This strategy is in contrast to the other two strategies I've pursued so far.  
These are, in the order I adopted them:

- Always draw gates based on the control populations.  In the first rounds draw 
  gates that fully encompass the controls, and in later rounds make the gates 
  more extreme as your coverage improves.

  The idea here was to be aggressive about screening for designs that worked 
  really well.  From my preliminary screen, it seemed like functional designs 
  were very common, so I thought I could afford to draw very stringent gates.  
  This worked really well for the rbf library, but yielded nothing for the rxf 
  library.  Adjusting the gate to fit the library in screens with ligand should 
  be just as stringent, but also capable of keeping the best designs from 
  weaker libraries.

- Start by drawing broad gates (with and without ligand) until a large majority 
  of the library becomes sensitive to the ligand.  Then draw more stringent 
  gates (with and without ligand) to isolate the designs with the best fold 
  change.
  
  The problem with this approach is that it takes ≈6-7 screens, as opposed to 
  ≈4, because I colect a lot of cells in the earlier rounds that I know a 
  priori that I'm going to get rid of later.  Thinking about the inefficiency 
  of this strategy led me to adopt the strategy outlined above.
